Hello again my friend.
In this video we are sketching out our moment.
You can see all manner of ugly sketching that I've done here it makes sense.
Trust me we'll be going through this together.
But the idea is to make a plan that we can follow so that we can start creating our moment.
Okay.
You can just get in here and start moving things around throwing around your houses getting a train
tool raising and lowering things I don't need that mountain anymore.
What about if there's a creek through here big mountain over there you can just do that.
And I think that's cool.
I'd like to have a little bit of a sketch so I know what I'm working from.
I also find that I spend hours in here just finessing.
What would this look like and all what if I.
It's like rearranging the furniture when you don't really know what you're trying to achieve with your
furniture and maybe there are maybe here.
So what I want to do is show you the process.
I'm gonna go through and just talk you through and make some notes as I go about sketching out my moments.
Remember we're not trying to create an entire level here just yet.
We're creating a moment like when you create if you are a movie director we're creating a scene.
So I think I'm going to have my place start down the bottom right now I just need to calibrate myself
with where my camera is so I know which way my camera is pointing or else.
Okay.
So my camera is pointing kind of this way.
OK.
So I just need to have that in my mind as I'm scrolling around here so this would be the bottom right.
That would be the end enter and then exit somewhere at the top here.
And I think a pretty simple process of going through some sort of town as I have here and then out through
an exit.
And I want to give the player a choice and I think that choice is going to come some way through an
alternate path that sort of goes around the action.
OK.
So the reason I'm showing you this right this level is I like to think very high level first.
What am I trying to achieve at high level I'm trying to have a path through the village path one choice
on which way to go.
And some enemies in the middle.
And from there once I've got these kind of high level and we talked about this last video as well then
I can put in a lot more detail.
So I think speaking of the detail at the start I won't have the player have a little bit of a reveal
so they're going to come around something.
I remember my camera is pointing this way.
So if I have some sort of going to make this in green when I'm putting in my world.
So if I have some sort of mount any thing in here or a hill or trees that I can't see past that as the
player comes around this bend like that then they get to see at this point what are they going to see.
Well maybe at some point I won't have the player go along a bridge to enter town.
So perhaps there's a river that runs through at the start here just making all this up as I go by the
way.
This is the great part of being a game designers and you just like I think I'll have a river and hey
presto you have a river over the river.
I think I'd like to have a bridge I've kind of had this in my mind.
How do you get into this encounter this moment.
You cross a bridge and that's a little bit symbolic for the players saying you've now exited this part
of the game and you're now entering this part of the game.
So you're a little bit of a moment to think about what's coming up and then we had this moment just
here.
I'll do this in another color orange.
This is where we have our Reveal of what's going on.
What do we reveal what I want to reveal when the player sees through our camera up here we're talking
about what's the player see seeing in Gods soldiers enemies that kind of thing.
So I'm gonna put them in red and we'd probably see them a little bit further why not right on top of
the bridge there.
Back here in town maybe close to the tavern.
So they've got one hand on the their cup of drink and another they're watching this kind of gait that
you're not allowed to get through.
Is it bad or not.
Do we have a gate across here.
Probably not because the peasants need to keep coming and going so maybe there's a little bit of a barricade
to the side of them just to say you can't get through here I won't have this bit blocked maybe I can
have some sound effects or they can speak or something.
I also I think this is a choice for the player.
Do they want to be just like you know tell you who lets let's get in there and have fisticuffs or perhaps
at that moment where they reveal they can go around this little path maybe it's a little bit more subtle
so it's not super obvious the player will feel clever when they go that way.
See if I can draw some of these trees.
There we go.
So some trees just kind of saying this is a little bit of a goat track around the side and now I'm going
to destroy my mountains over here we don't want the play to be to go any way that way.
And up here as well.
And over here as well.
So blocking all those areas that we don't want to play in again is going to put a little bit of cross
there says cannot go here.
OK.
And then buildings well I'm not going to try to map out exactly where all the buildings are here but
I think we need to have some sort of building there to block the path some sort of building here and
then probably you know town in here.
This is like the main road going through the middle so to make it very clear it's a main road and around
the sides only trees and shrubs trees I think around the side of the goat path.
Now what I do want to do is put an enemy on the goat path just so there is something going on here there's
an enemy who's doing a patrol wandering.
Maybe it's not as strong as guarding the area just kind of meandering around staggering around if you
will says one guy there and perhaps there's another couple of guys just milling around in town here.
Essentially I've got like a four guards here and one guard there.
That's a little bit the choice.
So we've got the player he's going through our choice I'm going to just make a note in here.
The reason I'm going through this so deliberately is just so you can see the thought process and you
can replicate this yourself in the future we're going to be making bigger levels and more levels that
connect with each other.
So it's good just to know how to create a moment.
Then we're building from there.
And then probably some more buildings up the top here.
See how quick and easy it is just to kind of sketch things out when you do it right in your level it
can take a little bit of time.
You all this mountain is not quite in the right spot and you take ten minutes to finish that then you
decide.
I actually mountains there is not the right thing.
So sketching out first has its merits.
The last thing I was trying to decide is do I have a big kind of tough guy fight at the end so that
no matter which party you go you get this big fight.
This is a question mark and we'll see how that feels.
We don't need to have everything perfectly designed at this stage.
We'll just say maybe there's a tough fight at the end gives us a chance to put in maybe a stronger enemy
have some different stats on that enemy.
Tough fight maybe in the end there really are.
I'm just gonna write this nice and big here fast and loose so I may or may not end up with this moment
in my final game but for now I'd only be constrained with trying to have it perfect which I want to
do it fast and loose.
The other thing I want to say at this point is you can also it's totally cool to have little notes or
place holder elements in your guarantee saying pink Well you might say here there is an NPC that you
can talk to.
Now you can just grab one of the enemy models and just kind of stick it there it won't move.
Don't put an animator on it and then you can just pretend and you can save yourself oh this point the
NPC will say you need to go on important quest so you can do a lot of things where you pretend at this
stage of the game you don't only have to do the things that we've built as mechanics.
Okay.
Save that up so I have it as a reference.
Go back into my level have a look around see if there's anything macro that needs to be changed.
I'll probably be smudging out some of this terrain over to the right here.
Might need to move these buildings a bit.
The outside looks like it's fine.
That's pretty good.
So all in all it's roughly what I need I've got most the assets on this easy existing town and the trees.
The enemies will play around with a little bit as well so yeah I think that's all I need to do.
Okay.
So that brings me to the challenge for you which I'm sure you've guessed what it is to sketch your moment
put some notes on your sketch.
You can do this either on paper or if you prefer that and then maybe take a photo of it or scan it or
just have it sitting by your desk or to do it electronically.
As I've been doing sketch out your moment mark where your enemies will likely be.
And as I said it's okay to add some pretend aspects such as a fake NPC that gives you a quest.
Once you've done that then share an image with the community.
It doesn't have to look pretty you can see mine is pretty ugly.
That is all we need to do at this point.
So jump in take on that challenge.
Share with the community and when you've done I will see you in the next video.